
# Design

This doc descibes our rational for design decisions.

# Business Context

The Exit Now App provides real time information about Destination, Recomendations, Road Conditions and Deal Incentives 
to drivers on the I-70 corridor. 

To meet these demands the App is based on a notification stream architecture based on 
RxJs with publish and subscribe.

# Design Decision Rationale

## RxJs over MVC Rationale

We chose RxJs over MVC for the following reasons

* Notification Driven Business Requirements
* The RxJs interface is lightweigtht and non-intrusive
  - All of RxJs is contained in the Stream class
  - The only methods the other classes access are publish(), subscribe and push()
* Message driven publish and subscript

## Small Code Base

Currently with one LESS/CSS file, 21 CoffeeScript/JavaScript files and 7 third party libraries = 5 JavaScript and 2 Icon,
the code base is small, compact and not expected to grow significantly. 

More over the main App is able to orchestrate the startup scenario and then hand over control to RxJS Stream in 
about 124 line of code. So no other third party control mechanisms are being considered. 

Interesting our App for the Denver competition from April 10-12 was based on Angular.js, Iconic and Leaflet map directives.
The huge amount of generated code provided a lot of functionality in a short period of time that was a key success factor for our win.
But in the long term generating a lot of code piles up technical debt, in particular with the maintainance lifecycle.

See https://github.com/MikeLockz/exit-now-mobile if you are at all interested in this code base

## CoffeeScript

* A transpiler to JavaScript
* Creates beautiful JavaScript prototype objects from class definitions
* String interpolation #{} for HTML templates

# Less

* Adds macros to CSS



## Notification Stream

The notification stream is categorized by the following subjects:

* Select
* Orient
* Destination
* ETA
* Location
* TakeDeal
* ArriveAtDeal
* Segments
* Deals
* Conditions
* RequestSegmentsBy
* RequestConditionsBy
* RequestDealsBy


